

# 1. Images 
https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/images

1.1 ## Create image 
https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/images/create

POST https://api.openai.com/v1/images/generations
Creates an image given a prompt. https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/images

## 1.1 Request body

### 1.1.1 prompt
string
Required
A text description of the desired image(s). The maximum length is 32000 characters for gpt-image-1.

### 1.1.2 background
string or null
Optional
Defaults to auto
Allows to set transparency for the background of the generated image(s). This parameter is only supported for gpt-image-1. Must be one of transparent, opaque or auto (default value). When auto is used, the model will automatically determine the best background for the image.

If transparent, the output format needs to support transparency, so it should be set to either png (default value) or webp.

### 1.1.3 model
string
gpt-image-1 to be used.

### 1.1.4 moderation
string or null
Optional
Defaults to auto
Control the content-moderation level for images generated by gpt-image-1. Must be either low for less restrictive filtering or auto (default value).

### 1.1.5 n
integer or null
Optional
Defaults to 1
The number of images to generate. Must be between 1 and 10. 

### 1.1.6 output_compression
integer or null
Optional
Defaults to 100
The compression level (0-100%) for the generated images. This parameter is only supported for gpt-image-1 with the webp or jpeg output formats, and defaults to 100.

### 1.1.7 output_format
string or null
Optional
Defaults to png
The format in which the generated images are returned. This parameter is only supported for gpt-image-1. Must be one of png, jpeg, or webp.

### 1.1.8 quality
string or null
Optional
Defaults to auto
The quality of the image that will be generated.

* auto (default value) will automatically select the best quality for the given model.
* high, medium and low are supported for gpt-image-1.

### 1.1.9 response_format
string or null
Optional
Defaults to url
The format in which generated images with dall-e-2 and dall-e-3 are returned. Must be one of url or b64_json. URLs are only valid for 60 minutes after the image has been generated. This parameter isn't supported for gpt-image-1 which will always return base64-encoded images.

### 1.1.10 size
string or null
Optional
Defaults to auto
The size of the generated images. Must be one of 1024x1024, 1536x1024 (landscape), 1024x1536 (portrait), or auto (default value) for gpt-image-1.


### 1.1.11 user
string
Optional
A unique identifier representing your end-user, which can help OpenAI to monitor and detect abuse.

## 1.2 Example Python Request
import base64
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI()

img = client.images.generate(
    model="gpt-image-1",
    prompt="A cute baby sea otter",
    n=1,
    size="1024x1024"
)

image_bytes = base64.b64decode(img.data[0].b64_json)
with open("output.png", "wb") as f:
    f.write(image_bytes)

## 1.3 Example Response
{
  "created": 1713833628,
  "data": [
    {
      "b64_json": "..."
    }
  ],
  "usage": {
    "total_tokens": 100,
    "input_tokens": 50,
    "output_tokens": 50,
    "input_tokens_details": {
      "text_tokens": 10,
      "image_tokens": 40
    }
  }
}


# 2 The image generation response
https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/images/object

The response from the image generation endpoint.

## 2.1 created
integer
The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the image was created.

## 2.2 data
array
The list of generated images.

### 2.2.1 b64_json
string
The base64-encoded JSON of the generated image. Default value for gpt-image-1, and only present if response_format is set to b64_json for dall-e-2 and dall-e-3.

### 2.2.2 revised_prompt
string
For dall-e-3 only, the revised prompt that was used to generate the image.

### 2.2.3 url
string
When using dall-e-2 or dall-e-3, the URL of the generated image if response_format is set to url (default value). Unsupported for gpt-image-1.

## 2.3 usage
object
For gpt-image-1 only, the token usage information for the image generation.


### 2.3.1 input_tokens
integer
The number of tokens (images and text) in the input prompt.

### 2.3.2 input_tokens_details
object
The input tokens detailed information for the image generation.


#### 2.3.2.1 image_tokens
integer
The number of image tokens in the input prompt.

#### 2.3.2.2 text_tokens
integer
The number of text tokens in the input prompt.

### 2.3.3 output_tokens
integer
The number of image tokens in the output image.

### 2.3.4 total_tokens
integer
The total number of tokens (images and text) used for the image generation.

## 2.4 OBJECT The image generation response example
{
  "created": 1713833628,
  "data": [
    {
      "b64_json": "..."
    }
  ],
  "usage": {
    "total_tokens": 100,
    "input_tokens": 50,
    "output_tokens": 50,
    "input_tokens_details": {
      "text_tokens": 10,
      "image_tokens": 40
    }
  }
}
